package ncm-ncd;

=pod

=head1 NAME

ncm-ncd - Node Configuration Dispatcher
      of the NCM (Node Configuration Management) subsystem

      quattor toolsuite http://quattor.org

=head1 SYNOPSIS

ncm-ncd --configure   [options] [<component1> [<component2>] ...]
ncm-ncd --unconfigure [options] component

(See ncm-ncd --help for full list of options with default values.)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<ncm-ncd> is the front end for invoking NCM configuration
components. The B<ncm-ncd> is called with a list of components to be
invoked as an argument. Based on this list, the B<ncd> looks up the
inter-component dependencies, orders the components, and invokes each
component sequentially.

If no component is specified, the B<ncd> will invoke all
components which are marked as active in the node configuration
profile. These are considered to be the 'default' components to run.

The B<ncd> can be executed manually, via B<cron>, or via the
B<cdispd>.

If a dependency is not fulfilled, the B<ncd> exits with an
appropriate error message and return status.

In case of deinstallation of a component using B<--unconfigure>,
the B<ncd> is to be called with the component's name as a
parameter.


=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item --list

Does nothing but list all found components, in the following format:

name - active? - installed?

=item --configure

Run the C<Configure> method for <component1 component2 ...> (default option).
For running configure on all components, use --configure --all.

=item --all

See above. Run --configure --all to run configure on all components.

=item --skip <component>

Skip one component (only to be used with --all)

=item --unconfigure

Run the C<Unconfigure> method for <component>. Only one component can
be unconfigured at a time.

=item --logdir <dir>

Directory where to place ncm-ncd and component log files

=item --log_group_readable <groupname>

Group readable logdir (value is the groupname).
If set with valid groupname, the configured logdirectory
will have its permissions set to 750 and the
the groupname as group (still owned by root).

Following standard UNIX ACL semantics, the C<log_group_readable> configuration
option is not very useful if C<log_world_readable> is also true.

=item --log_world_readable <0|1>

World readable logdir flag (1/0). If true, the configured logdirectory
will have its permissions set to 755. If false (the default) the permissions will be 700.

These permissions will be set each time C<ncm-ncd> is run.

Following standard UNIX ACL semantics, the C<log_group_readable> configuration
option is not very useful if C<log_world_readable> is also true.

The use of C<log_world_readable> is not recommended
if profiles contain sensitive or private information.

=item --logpid

Add process ID to the log messages (disabled by default).

=item --verbose_logfile <0|1>

Report with verbose loglevel to the logfile (default enabled)

=item --retries <n>

Try 'n' times if locked (another ncm-ncd instance is running).

=item --state <dir>

Directory in which to find state files. On conclusion of any component
configuration, if the configuration was successful then the component
file will be deleted from this state directory. If a component
produces errors, then the component file will contain the number of errors.
In other words, if a configuration is clean then there will be
no files within the state directory. If there are any problems with
the configuration, then there will be a file for the failing
components. An empty file indicates that the component has not
completed its configuration. If this option is not defined, then
no state files will be maintained.

=item --timeout <n>

Wait a maximum of 'n' seconds between retries.

=item --useprofile <profile_id>

Use <profile_id> as NVA-API configuration profile ID (default: latest)

=item --cache_root <directory>

CCM cache root directory (optional, otherwise CCM default taken)

=item --multilog

Use separate (per component) log files in log directory

=item --pre-hook

Hook to be executed before any component is run.  It receives a JSON
object with the list of components that will be executed.

To see the exact form of the input run

    ncm-ncd --configure <some-comp> --pre-hook /bin/cat

=item --post-hook

Hook to be executed after all components have run.  It receives a JSON
object via stdin with the components that succeeded, failed or had
warnings.

=item --pre-hook-timeout, --post-hook-timeout

Timeouts, in seconds, for the C<--pre-hook> and C<--post-hook>

A value of 0 means no time out.  By default they time out after 5 minutes.

=item --chroot

Chroot to the directory given as an argument.  If it's not possible to
chroot, C<ncm-ncd> will die.

=item --check-noquattor

Check if CCM updates are disabled globally via the /etc/noquattor file.
And do not run if CCM updates are globally disabled.
(If --check-noquattor is not set, ncm-ncd will ignore /etc/noquattor).

It is enabled by default, use C<--no-check-noquattor> to disable it
(or set C<check-noquattor = 0> in the configfile).

=item --history

Enable history/event tracking. (Enabled by default).

=item --force-quattor

Run even if CCM updates are globally disabled (and --check-noquattor is set).

=back

=head2 Advanced Options

Following options are advanced options (typically used for debugging and/or testing).
Use with care.

=over

=item --ignorelock

Ignore existing application lock. Use with care.

=item --forcelock

Take over application lock. Use with care.

=item --nodeps

ignore broken dependencies when invoking configure. Use with care.

missing pre/post dependencies are ignored during resolution;
and during the ordered execution of all components, failing
predependencies are not considered broken and allow the execution
of the component.

=item --ignore-errors-from-dependencies

errors from dependencies are downgraded to warnings, to make the
overall ncm-ncd run pass if a dependency fails. This option implies
'--nodeps' and '--autodeps'. Use with care.

A "dependency" is any component that is not requested/specified
 via command line (and added to list of components to process via
'--autodeps', if any).

(If you do not care about dependencies and just want to avoid errors,
you can also try to use '--nodeps --no-autodeps').

=item --autodeps

Expand missing pre/post dependencies in configure (default to true).
(Disable with --no-autodeps. Use --no-autodeps with care.)

=item --allowbrokencomps

Do not stop overall execution if 'broken' components are found, just ignore
these ('broken' components: component file missing or not instantiable). Use with care.

=item --history-instances

Enable history/event instances tracking. Use with care.

=back

=head2 Other Options

=over

=item --help

Displays a help message with all options and default settings.

=item --version

Displays application version information.

=item --verbose

Print verbose details on operations.

=item --debug <1..5>

Set the debugging level to <1..5>.

=item --facility <f>

Set the syslog facility to <f> (Eg. local1).

=item --quiet

Suppress application output to standard output.

=item --noaction

Do not actually perform operations.

=item --include <directories>

A colon-seperated list of directories to include in search path for ncm-components

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION FILE

A configuration file can keep site-wide configuration settings. The
location of the configuration file is defined in the --cfgfile
option. A default configuration file is found in
/etc/ncm-ncd.conf

=head1 SIGNAL HANDLING

If a signal is received, the ncm-ncd will try to finish its execution
gracefully and will report an error (return status: -1), except if
it was called with the --noaction flag.

=head1 AUTHOR

${author}

=head1 MORE INFORMATION

Visit B<http://quattor.org> for more information on the quattor
toolsuite.

=cut
